/
Compute, 
Networking 
Lab Steps
Sign into the AWS Management Console

Create CloudWatch Logs.

Create a VPC.

Create an Internet Gateway.

Create a Subnet.

Create VPC Flow Logs.

Create an EC2 Instance.

Generating Traffic

Viewing log events in Cloudwatch Log groups.


Task 1: Sign in to AWS Management Console
Click on the  , and you will get redirected to AWS Console in a new browser tab.

On the AWS sign-in page,

Leave the Account ID as default. Never edit/remove the 12 digit Account ID present in the AWS Console. otherwise, you cannot proceed with the lab.

Now copy your User Name and Password in the Lab Console to the IAM Username and Password in AWS Console and click on the Sign in button.

     3. Once Signed In to the AWS Management Console, Make the default AWS Region as US East (N. Virginia) us-east-1.

Task 2: Create CloudWatch Logs
Navigate to the Services menu at the top and choose CloudWatch under Management and Governance.

Click on Log Groups in the left side panel and Click on 

Enter the Log Group Name: whizvpclogs and click on Create.



Task 3: Create a VPC
Navigate to the Services menu at the top and choose VPC under Networking and Content Delivery.

Click on Your VPC’s in the left side panel then click on  and select VPC only. 

VPC Settings:

Name tag: Enter MyVPC

IPv4 CIDR block: Enter 10.1.0.0/16



Then leave the other fields as default and click on .

Click on Your VPC's on the left panel and it will be shown like this.



Task 6: Creating an Internet Gateway
Select Internet Gateways in the left side panel and click on the   

Enter the name as MyInternetGateway. Leave everything else as default and click on the  


Once created, attach it to MyVPC by clicking on Actions at the top and selecting Attach to VPC.
          

Under Available VPCs, select MyVPC and then click on Attach internet gateway button.

Click on the Route Tables on the left side panel and then choose the main route table for your VPC,i.e., MyVPC. 

Now click on the Routes tab and then click on .


Click on Add Routes

Destination: Enter 0.0.0.0/0 

Target: Select Internet Gateway and choose MyInternetGateway from the drop-down list.

Click on Save Changes button.



Task 7: Create a Subnet
Click on Subnets in the left side panel and click on Create Subnet .

VPC:

VPC ID: Select MyVPC



Subnet settings:

Subnet name: Enter whizsub

Availability Zone: Select US East(N.Virginia)/us-east-1a

IPv4 CIDR Block: Enter 10.1.1.0/24

Click on Create subnet button.



Task 8: Create VPC Flow Logs
Click on Your VPC's on the left side panel and select MyVPC, click on Actions then select Create Flow Log.

Create flow log:

Name: Enter MyVPCFlowLog

Filter: Select Accept

Maximum Aggregation Interval: Select 1 minute

Destination: Select Send to Cloudwatch Logs

Destination Log Group: Select whizvpclogs.



IAM role: Select VPCFlowLog_Role_<RANDOM_NUMBER>. This role has been already created for you.

Leave the other options as default, then click on Create flow log.



Once the flow logs are created, In the My VPC's dashboard, select MyVPC, and click on Flow Logs tab below.


Now you have successfully learned how to create the VPC Flow Logs. 

Task 9: Creating an EC2 Instance
Navigate to Services at the top and click on EC2 under Compute. 

Make sure you are in the US-East (N.Virginia) us-east-1 region.

Select Instances in the left side panel and click on .

 Enter Name as whizlabsec2instance.

Choose an Amazon Machine Image (AMI): Select Amazon Linux 2 AMI in the drop-down.

Choose architecture as 64-bit(x86)
                

     6. Choose an Instance Type: Select t2.micro.

         

     7. For Key pair: Select Create a new key pair Button

Key pair name: WhizKey

Key pair type: RSA

Private key file format: .pem

Select Create key pair Button.

           

   9. In Network Settings Click on Edit Button:

VPC : Select MyVPC

Subnet: It automatically selects the Subnet we created(whizsub)

Auto-assign public IP: Enable

Select Create new Security group

Security group name : Enter MyEC2Server_SG

Description : Enter Security Group to allow traffic to EC2



Check Allow SSH from and Select Anywhere from dropdown

To add SSH,

Choose Type: 

Source: Select  

For HTTP, Select Add Security rule Button

Choose Type: HTTP 

Source:  Select 

     10. Under Advanced Details, scroll to IAM Instance Profile, and select VPCFlowLog_Role_<RANDOM_NUMBER>.

Once the download is complete, click on Launch Instances.

After 1-5 minutes, the Instance State will change to Running, as shown below:


Task 10: Generating Traffic

 We need to SSH into the instance to generate traffic. To do so, please follow the steps in SSH into EC2 Instance.



Once you SSH into the instance, install an Apache Server. To install it, follow the below steps. Run these commands one-by-one.

sudo su
yum -y update
yum install httpd -y
cd /var/www/html
echo "Response coming from server" > /var/www/html/index.html
systemctl start httpd
systemctl enable httpd
systemctl status httpd 


Copy your instance's Public-IP/index.html, paste it into your browser and hit enter.



Task 11: Viewing log events in Cloudwatch Log groups
Navigate to the Services menu at the top and choose CloudWatch under Management and Governance.

Click on Log Groups in the left side panel and click on whizvpclogs.

Go to Log streams section and click on the log stream that has been created [In my case - eni-0cce25a260b5d0fbe-accept]

        

      5. You will be able to view all the log events i.e the traffic that is being directed to our EC2 Instance.

             

Completion and Conclusion
You have successfully created CloudWatch Logs.

You have successfully created the VPC.

You have successfully created the VPC Flow Logs.

You have successfully created an Instance.

You have successfully created Subnets that should be separate then generated some site traffic.
